packages/toolkit/README.md, before:

The AWS Toolkit lets you interact with AWS directly from VS Code. Ready to install? See [Getting Started](#getting-started).

## Amazon Q and CodeWhisperer

Amazon CodeWhisperer is now part of Amazon Q. [Try the Amazon Q extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=AmazonWebServices.amazon-q-vscode).

## [Application Composer](https://aws.amazon.com/application-composer/)

AWS Application Composer maintains a real-time visual representation of your application architecture in sync with your IaC. Changes to the architecture—such as adding new resources or changing service configuration—are reflected in the IaC artifacts, and vice versa.

-   Visually compose modern applications from 1,000+ AWS CloudFormation resources with little guesswork.
-   Use the right tool for the task, including visual, code, or generative AI powered code suggestions in your IDE.
-   Integrate with Workflow Studio to visually orchestrate over 220 AWS services or public http endpoints with Step Functions workflows.

![Application Composer](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/appComposer.gif)

## [Amazon CodeCatalyst](https://codecatalyst.aws/explore)

Unified software development service to quickly build and deliver applications on AWS.

**Dev Environments** - launch VS Code in a cloud development environment, available on-demand in the cloud and automatically created with branch code and consistent project settings, providing faster setup, development, and testing

## View, modify, and deploy AWS resources

**Multiple AWS accounts and regions** - access AWS resources across your accounts and regions

![creds](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/creds.gif)

**S3 support** - view, create, and edit S3 buckets, folders, and files

![S3](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/S3.gif)

**Lambda** - download & upload Lambda functions

![download-Lambda](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/download-Lambda.gif)

## Troubleshoot AWS from the IDE

**Lambda** - step-through AWS Lambda functions using the VS Code debugger

![Lambda_step_through_debugging](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/Lambda_step_through_debugging.gif)

**CloudWatch** - find logs generated by your AWS resources

![cw_logs](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/cw_logs.gif)

**ECS** - execute commands against running ECS containers (or open a terminal)

![ecs-terminal](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/ecs-terminal.gif)

## More features

-   **Redshift** - view database objects and run SQL queries in a notebook interface
-   **Step Functions** - work with asl files and render state machine visuals
-   **CloudFormation** - view CloudFormation stacks
-   **API Gateway** - invoke an API gateway endpoint
-   **S3** - view and create S3 folders and buckets, download and upload files, and edit supported files

For a full list of features, visit [our documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/toolkit-for-vscode/latest/userguide/working-with-aws.html).

## Getting Started

1. Open the AWS Toolkit extension
2. Sign in with your AWS credentials

![getting-started](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/auth-Toolkit.gif)

## Troubleshooting

Submit bug reports and feature requests [on our Github repository](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues/new/choose).

Looking for Amazon Q or CodeWhisperer? [Try the Amazon Q extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=AmazonWebServices.amazon-q-vscode).

Commit message:

feat(ThreatComposer): edit, view Threat Models #5109
Problem
Threat models, represented as *.tc.json files, are rendered using the default JSON editor

Solution
Build a custom editor in VSCode to render *.tc.json files as a Threat Model, similar to how it would be displayed in a browser

packages/toolkit/README.md, after:

The AWS Toolkit lets you interact with AWS directly from VS Code. Ready to install? See [Getting Started](#getting-started).

## [Threat Composer](https://github.com/awslabs/threat-composer#readme)

Integrate threat modeling practices into your development workflow by creating and version controlling your threat models as code.

Threat Composer for the AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio Code allows you to create, view and edit [Threat Composer](https://github.com/awslabs/threat-composer#readme) threat models `.tc.json` directly within VSCode.

![Threat Composer](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/threatComposer.gif)

## Amazon Q and CodeWhisperer

Amazon CodeWhisperer is now part of Amazon Q. [Try the Amazon Q extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=AmazonWebServices.amazon-q-vscode).

## [Application Composer](https://aws.amazon.com/application-composer/)

AWS Application Composer maintains a real-time visual representation of your application architecture in sync with your IaC. Changes to the architecture—such as adding new resources or changing service configuration—are reflected in the IaC artifacts, and vice versa.

-   Visually compose modern applications from 1,000+ AWS CloudFormation resources with little guesswork.
-   Use the right tool for the task, including visual, code, or generative AI powered code suggestions in your IDE.
-   Integrate with Workflow Studio to visually orchestrate over 220 AWS services or public http endpoints with Step Functions workflows.

![Application Composer](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/appComposer.gif)

## [Amazon CodeCatalyst](https://codecatalyst.aws/explore)

Unified software development service to quickly build and deliver applications on AWS.

**Dev Environments** - launch VS Code in a cloud development environment, available on-demand in the cloud and automatically created with branch code and consistent project settings, providing faster setup, development, and testing

## View, modify, and deploy AWS resources

**Multiple AWS accounts and regions** - access AWS resources across your accounts and regions

![creds](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/creds.gif)

**S3 support** - view, create, and edit S3 buckets, folders, and files

![S3](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/S3.gif)

**Lambda** - download & upload Lambda functions

![download-Lambda](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/download-Lambda.gif)

## Troubleshoot AWS from the IDE

**Lambda** - step-through AWS Lambda functions using the VS Code debugger

![Lambda_step_through_debugging](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/Lambda_step_through_debugging.gif)

**CloudWatch** - find logs generated by your AWS resources

![cw_logs](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/cw_logs.gif)

**ECS** - execute commands against running ECS containers (or open a terminal)

![ecs-terminal](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/ecs-terminal.gif)

## More features

-   **Redshift** - view database objects and run SQL queries in a notebook interface
-   **Step Functions** - work with asl files and render state machine visuals
-   **CloudFormation** - view CloudFormation stacks
-   **API Gateway** - invoke an API gateway endpoint
-   **S3** - view and create S3 folders and buckets, download and upload files, and edit supported files

For a full list of features, visit [our documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/toolkit-for-vscode/latest/userguide/working-with-aws.html).

## Getting Started

1. Open the AWS Toolkit extension
2. Sign in with your AWS credentials

![getting-started](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/raw/HEAD/docs/marketplace/vscode/auth-Toolkit.gif)

## Troubleshooting

Submit bug reports and feature requests [on our Github repository](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues/new/choose).

Looking for Amazon Q or CodeWhisperer? [Try the Amazon Q extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=AmazonWebServices.amazon-q-vscode).
