README.md, before:

# AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio Code

[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/master.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/branch/master) [![Marketplace Version](https://img.shields.io/vscode-marketplace/v/AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode.svg) ![Marketplace Downloads](https://img.shields.io/vscode-marketplace/d/AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode)

AWS Toolkit is a [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/itemdetails?itemName=AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode) for connecting your IDE to your AWS resources:

-   Connect with [IAM credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/access-users.html),
    [IAM Identity Center (SSO)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/what-is.html),
    or [AWS Builder ID](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/signin/latest/userguide/differences-aws_builder_id.html)
-   Use [Amazon Q](https://aws.amazon.com/q/developer/) to write code
-   Connect to your [CodeCatalyst](https://codecatalyst.aws/) Dev Environments
-   Debug your Lambda functions using [SAM CLI](https://github.com/aws/aws-sam-cli)
-   Check and autocomplete code in SAM/CFN (CloudFormation) `template.yaml` files
-   `Open Terminal` on your ECS tasks
-   `Search Log Group` on your CloudWatch logs
-   Browse your AWS resources

This project is open source. We love issues, feature requests, code reviews, pull requests or any
positive contribution. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) to get started.

## Documentation

-   [Quick Start Guide](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/itemdetails?itemName=AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode)
-   [FAQ / Troubleshooting](./docs/faq-credentials.md)
-   [User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/console/toolkit-for-vscode/welcome)
-   General info about [AWS SDKs and Tools](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/overview.html)

## Feedback

We want your feedback!

-   Upvote 👍 [feature requests](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Afeature-request+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc)
-   [Ask a question](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues/new?labels=guidance&template=guidance_request.md)
-   [Request a new feature](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues/new?labels=feature-request&template=feature_request.md)
-   [File an issue](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug_report.md)
-   Or [send a pull request](CONTRIBUTING.md)!

## License

The **AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio Code** is distributed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Commit message:

docs: update README.md for 2 extensions #5075

README.md, after:

# AWS Extensions for Visual Studio Code

[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/master.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/branch/master)

This project is open source. We love issues, feature requests, code reviews, pull requests or any
positive contribution. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) to get started.

### Amazon Q

[![Marketplace Version](https://img.shields.io/vscode-marketplace/v/AmazonWebServices.amazon-q-vscode.svg) ![Marketplace Downloads](https://img.shields.io/vscode-marketplace/d/AmazonWebServices.amazon-q-vscode.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=AmazonWebServices.amazon-q-vscode)

Amazon Q for VS Code is a [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/itemdetails?itemName=AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode) for connecting your IDE to [Amazon Q](https://aws.amazon.com/q/developer/) and leveraging generative AI to accelerate your software development.

-   Code faster with inline code suggestions as you type
-   Chat with [Amazon Q](https://aws.amazon.com/q/developer/) to generate code, explain code, and get answers to questions about software development
-   Analyze and fix security vulnerabilities in your project
-   Upgrade your Java applications

[Project Directory](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/tree/master/packages/amazonq)

### AWS Toolkit

[![Marketplace Version](https://img.shields.io/vscode-marketplace/v/AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode.svg) ![Marketplace Downloads](https://img.shields.io/vscode-marketplace/d/AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode)

AWS Toolkit is a [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/itemdetails?itemName=AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode) for connecting your IDE to your AWS resources:

-   Connect with [IAM credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/access-users.html),
    [IAM Identity Center (SSO)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/what-is.html),
    or [AWS Builder ID](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/signin/latest/userguide/differences-aws_builder_id.html)
-   Connect to your [CodeCatalyst](https://codecatalyst.aws/) Dev Environments
-   Debug your Lambda functions using [SAM CLI](https://github.com/aws/aws-sam-cli)
-   Check and autocomplete code in SAM/CFN (CloudFormation) `template.yaml` files
-   `Open Terminal` on your ECS tasks
-   `Search Log Group` on your CloudWatch logs
-   Browse your AWS resources

[Project Directory](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/tree/master/packages/toolkit)

## Documentation

-   Quick Start Guides for...
    -   [Amazon Q](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/itemdetails?itemName=AmazonWebServices.amazon-q-vscode)
    -   [AWS Toolkit](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/itemdetails?itemName=AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode)
-   [FAQ / Troubleshooting](./docs/faq-credentials.md)
-   [User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/console/toolkit-for-vscode/welcome)
-   General info about [AWS SDKs and Tools](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/overview.html)

## Feedback

We want your feedback!

-   Upvote 👍 [feature requests](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Afeature-request+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc)
-   [Ask a question](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues/new?labels=guidance&template=guidance_request.md)
-   [Request a new feature](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues/new?labels=feature-request&template=feature_request.md)
-   [File an issue](https://github.com/aws/aws-toolkit-vscode/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug_report.md)
-   Or [send a pull request](CONTRIBUTING.md)!

## License

This project and the subprojects within **(AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio Code, Amazon Q for Visual Studio Code)** is distributed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).
