docs/api.md, before:

# AWS Toolkit API

Details about any publicly accessible functionalities exposed through [extension commands](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/vscode-api#commands) or [exported APIs](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/vscode-api#extensions).

## Pseudo (Internal-only) API

### Commands

#### `aws.codeWhisperer.connect`

**Signature**: _async (startUrl?: string, region?: string, customizationArn?: string, customizationNamePrefix?: string) => Promise<void>_

Shortcut command to directly connect to Identity Center or prompt start URL entry, as well as set a customization for CodeWhisperer requests.

This command supports the following arguments:

-   startUrl and region. If both arguments are provided they will be used, otherwise the command prompts for them interactively.
-   customizationArn: select customization by ARN. If provided, `customizationNamePrefix` is ignored.
-   customizationNamePrefix: select customization by prefix, if `customizationArn` is `undefined`.

### Extension API

#### `listConnections`

**Signature**: _async () => Promise<AwsConnection>_

This is an API that exposes the metadata of SSO connections of AWS Toolkit. It returns a list of `AwsConnection` which contains below fields:

-   id: string that presents the id of the connection
-   label: label of the connection
-   type: type of the connection, currently only 'sso' is returned
-   ssoRegion: region of the connection, e.g: us-west-2
-   startUrl: start url of the connection
-   scopes?: list of the scopes of the connection

Commit message:

telemetry: add source parameter to aws.codeWhisperer.connect
External extensions were calling this API to setup a connection
but we did not have insight in to who was calling it.

Solution, add a `source` parameter so that the caller can identify
themselves.

Signed-off-by: Nikolas Komonen <nkomonen@amazon.com>

docs/api.md, after:

# AWS Toolkit API

Details about any publicly accessible functionalities exposed through [extension commands](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/vscode-api#commands) or [exported APIs](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/vscode-api#extensions).

## Pseudo (Internal-only) API

### Commands

#### `aws.codeWhisperer.connect`

**Signature**: _async (source: string, startUrl?: string, region?: string, customizationArn?: string, customizationNamePrefix?: string) => Promise<void>_

Shortcut command to directly connect to Identity Center or prompt start URL entry, as well as set a customization for CodeWhisperer requests.

This command supports the following arguments:

-   source: An identifier of the caller of this command. This can be used for something like telemetry.
-   startUrl and region. If both arguments are provided they will be used, otherwise the command prompts for them interactively.
-   customizationArn: select customization by ARN. If provided, `customizationNamePrefix` is ignored.
-   customizationNamePrefix: select customization by prefix, if `customizationArn` is `undefined`.

### Extension API

#### `listConnections`

**Signature**: _async () => Promise<AwsConnection>_

This is an API that exposes the metadata of SSO connections of AWS Toolkit. It returns a list of `AwsConnection` which contains below fields:

-   id: string that presents the id of the connection
-   label: label of the connection
-   type: type of the connection, currently only 'sso' is returned
-   ssoRegion: region of the connection, e.g: us-west-2
-   startUrl: start url of the connection
-   scopes?: list of the scopes of the connection
